# Analysis of NHANES 2017-18
Analysis the association between caffeine intake and gallstones and cholecystectomy among U.S adults,using data from National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2017-18. 

The data selected for this study is the publicly available data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2017-2018. NHANES is a nation-wide study conducted every two years by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to collect information on American’s health and nutrition. The five available data categories are Demographics (DEMO), Dietary (DIET), Examination (EXAM), Laboratory (LAB), and Questionaries (Q), with multiple sub-datasets within each category. 
Specifically, data related to caffeine intake, gallstones, gallbladder surgery as well as demographic, lifestyle, and other dietary information are extracted and combined into a new dataset for analyses (selected variables shown below). Demographic, dietary, and questionnaire data were collected through surveys by in-person interviews; weight, BMI, and waist circumference were measured by physical examination; blood cholesterol was measured using laboratory tests.

To investigate the relationship between caffeine and the incidence of gallstones/ gallbladder surgery, we will first identify all participants either with gallstones or underwent gallbladder surgery in NHNAES 2017-2018 as our cases. Participants who were under 18 years old at the screening visit, pregnant, or diabetic are excluded. The primary outcome of this study is the incidence of gallstones and gallbladder surgery; the primary exposure is caffeine intake, which is categorized into 4 groups: low (≤ 50 mg), normal (51-200 mg), high (201-400 mg), and very high (≥ 401 mg). Weighted logistic regression was performed to estimate the odds ratio for the incidence of gallstones and gallbladder surgery, with the adjustment of covariates such as sex, age, socioeconomic factors, body mass index (BMI)…etc. 
